Created new CORS Issues Blog Post (#468)
supertokens/docs: v2/emailpassword/troubleshooting/cors-issues.mdx

### `credentials` [must have]

This configures the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` CORS header. It expects a boolean.

If you set this header to true, then the browser will allow cookies to be sent in cross-origin requests. This is important because SuperTokens, by default uses cookies for sessions in the browser.

## Common CORS Issues
<br/>

### `[Error] Credentials flag is true, but Access-Control-Allow-Credentials is not "true".`

This happens when the CORS credentials field is not set to true.

We can remedy this issue by setting credentials to `true` in our cors setting.

```tsx
import SuperTokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";
let app = express();

// ...other middlewares

app.use(
  cors({
    origin: "http://127.0.0.1:3000",
    allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...SuperTokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
    methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
    //highlight-start
    credentials: true, // Check this line
    //highlight-end

  })  
);
```

<br/>

> ### `[Error] Origin [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 204`

Reviewer: Please make sure to check to remove `[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)` in code snippets

> ### `[Error] Origin [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 204`

Author: Fixed for all spots!

> This happens when the CORS origin field is incorrect. Another varient of this error is when the OPTIONS API returns a 404 error. This can happen cause of misconfigured API gateway or reverse proxy. It can also be caused by a misconfiguration in the CORS origin field. 

Reviewer: This is talking about two issues in one paragraph in a jumbled way.. please rephrase (one issue about incorrect origin, and one about misconfig of proxy).

Author: Ok sounds good!

> We can remedy this issue by ensuring the origin field lines up with the API domain located in other parts of the code. I’ve highlighted them in bold below -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can remedy this issue by ensuring the origin field lines up with the website domain located in other parts of the code.
```

```tsx
import supertokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";

supertokens.init({
  supertokens: {
    connectionURI: "...",
  },

  appInfo: {
    appName: "...",

>     apiDomain: "http://localhost:3001", 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    apiDomain: "...", 
```

>     websiteDomain: "http://localhost:3000",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // highlight-next-line
    websiteDomain: "http://localhost:3000",
```

  },
   recipeList: [/* ... */],
});

const app = express();
app.use(
   cors({
      //highlight-start
      origin: "http://localhost:3000", // Check this line
      //highlight-end
      allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...supertokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
      methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
      credentials: true,
   })
);
```

<br />

> ### `[Error] Origin http://localhost:3000 is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 200`

Reviewer: this is the same as the previous point? The status code deosn't really matter.. so combine this point with the previous one, and then say that there are three reasons:
- Misconfigured origin
- CORS middleware after supertokens middleware
- OPTIONS API returns a 404 due to misconfig of proxy

Author: Gotcha, ok. Let me make that change.

Author: What do you think about - 
`[Error] Cannot use wildcard in Access-Control-Allow-Origin when credentials flag is true.`

The solution for this error is the same - to ensure that origin lines up with website domain.

Reviewer: I think what you have done now is fine.

```tsx
import supertokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";
import middleware from "supertokens-node/framework/express";

const app = express();

app.use(
   cors({
       origin: "http://localhost:3000", // Make sure this is the correct domain
       allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...supertokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
       methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
       credentials: true,
   })
);
//highlight-start
app.use(middleware()); // CORS should be before this line
//highlight-end
```

<br />

### `[Error] Cannot use wildcard in Access-Control-Allow-Origin when credentials flag is true.`

This appears when `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header is set to `*`. To fix, add in the correct origin value in the CORS settings.

```tsx
import supertokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";

const app = express();

app.use(
   cors({
      //highlight-start

>       origin: "http://localhost:3000",  // Make sure the website domain is correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      origin: "http://localhost:3000",  // Make sure this is the same we the website domain
```

Author: Fixed, and also changed other parts of the doc where code comments might be confusing.

---
id: cors-issues
title: CORS Issues
hide_title: true
---

<!-- COPY DOCS -->
<!-- ./emailpassword/troubleshooting/cors-issues.mdx -->

# CORS Issues 

## Introduction

> In this post, we’ll be talking about Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)!

Author: Fixed!

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a mechanism that supports secure cross-origin requests and data transfers, allowing resources such as loading web fonts or making API calls from new domains.

For example, a user is on a website that uses the domain name "example.com". This website uses a font that's hosted on a different domain name, "fonts.com". When the user's browser makes a request for the font from "fonts.com", the browser will first send a "preflight" request to "fonts.com" to check if "fonts.com" is willing to share resources with "example.com".

> If "fonts.com" allows cross-origin resource sharing, then the browser will proceed with loading the font. Otherwise, the browser will cancel the request.

Author: I think we can keep the fonts.com. I know it's not super applicable to Supertokens but I think it's a bit more concrete to help the reader undersatnd CORS. Happy to change if you feel strongly though!

CORS is a way for web servers to say "I will accept cross-origin requests from this origin" or "I will not accept cross-origin requests from this origin". CORS is a security measure to prevent malicious scripts from making unauthorized requests.

This is important because cross-origin requests can be quite scary. I could be logged into my bank account and a malicious site could make an AJAX request to the bank site to retrieve my bank balance.

CORS supports these types of cross-origin requests while still maintaining a high level of security. By specifying which origin domains are allowed to make requests and which methods and headers are allowed, we can all browse the web without worrying about our bank information being stolen.

## Handling CORS with Supertokens

> With Supertokens, handling CORS is quite simple!

Author: Fixed!

- String - set origin to a specific origin. For example, once set to "http://example.com" only requests from "http://example.com" will be allowed.

This is important because Supertokens has both a frontend and backend SDK. The frontend SDK calls the APIs exposed by the backend SDK. As a result, if the origin to set to false or the wrong origin, we’ll find an error such as the following -

:::danger
Origin [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 204
:::

**allowedHeaders [optional] -**

This configures the Access-Control-Allow-Headers CORS header. It expects one of two input types.

- Comma-delimited string - 'X-Custom-Header, Content-Type'
- Array - ['X-Custom-Header', 'Content-Type']

For Supertokens projects, we can use the SuperTokens.getCORSAllowedHeaders() function which calls the following list - ["anti-csrf", "rid"] for the Content-Type.

This is important because the header tells the browser what HTTP headers are allowed to be used when making a cross-origin request. By default, CORS will reflect the headers specified in the request's Access-Control-Request-Headers header.

> **methods [optional] -**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`methods` [optional] -**
```

This configures the Access-Control-Allow-Methods CORS header. It expects one of two input types.

- Comma-delimited string - 'GET,PUT,POST'
- Array - ['GET', 'PUT', 'POST']

> This is important because the header tells the browser what HTTP verbs are allowed to be used when making a cross-origin request. Supertokens in particular uses GETs and POSTs to verify, create new accounts, sign in/out and many other functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is important because the header tells the browser what HTTP methods are allowed to be used when making a cross-origin request. Supertokens in particular uses `GET`, `POST` and `PUT` for functions such as creating new accounts, signing in/out etc.
```

> **credentials [must have] -**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`credentials` [must have] -**
```

> This configures the Access-Control-Allow-Credentials CORS header. It expects a boolean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configures the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` CORS header. It expects a boolean.
```

> If you set this header to true, then the browser will allow cookies to be sent in cross-origin requests. This is important because cookies are the only way Supertokens can store the user's session. It is required to set this header to true, so that the browser can send cookies to the Supertokens service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set this header to true, then the browser will allow cookies to be sent in cross-origin requests. This is important because SuperTokens, by default uses cookies for sessions in the browser.
```

## Common CORS Issues

:::danger

> [Error] Credentials flag is true, but Access-Control-Allow-Credentials is not "true".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`[Error] Credentials flag is true, but Access-Control-Allow-Credentials is not "true".`
```

:::

This happens when the CORS credentials field is not set to true.

> We can remedy this issue by setting credentials to ‘true’ in our cors setting. I’ve highlighted the addition in bold below -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can remedy this issue by setting credentials to `true` in our cors setting.
```

```tsx
import SuperTokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";
let app = express();

// ...other middlewares

app.use(
  cors({
    origin: "http://127.0.0.1:8080",
    allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...SuperTokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
    methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
    //highlight-start
    credentials: true, // Check this line
    //highlight-end

  })  
);
```

:::danger
[Error] Origin [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 204
:::

> This happens when the CORS origin field is incorrect. Another varient of this error is when the error code is a 404. Generally, that also means a misconfiguration in the CORS origin field. 

Reviewer: The 404 happens when the OPTIONS API returns a 404 error. This can happen cause of misconfigured API gateway or reverse proxy.

Author: Added!

  },

  appInfo: {
    appName: "SuperTokens Demo App",
    //highlight-start
    apiDomain: "http://localhost:8080", // Check this line**
    //highlight-end
    websiteDomain: "http://localhost:3000",
  },
   recipeList: [
      EmailPassword.init(),
      Session.init(),
      Dashboard.init({
        apiKey: "supertokens_is_awesome",
      }),
   ],
});

const app = express();
app.use(
   cors({
      //highlight-start
      origin: "http://localhost:8080", // Check this line
      //highlight-end
      allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...supertokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
      methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
      credentials: true,
   })
);
```

```tsx
//App.js
import SuperTokens from "supertokens-auth-react";
import EmailPassword from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/emailpassword";
import Session from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/session";

SuperTokens.init({
 appInfo: {
    appName: "SuperTokens Demo App",
    //highlight-start
    apiDomain: "http://localhost:8080", // Check this line
    //highlight-end
    websiteDomain: "http://localhost:3000",
 },
 recipeList: [
    EmailPassword.init(),
    Session.init()
 ]
});

> ```

Reviewer: why is this there as well?

:::danger
[Error] Origin http://localhost:3000 is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 200
:::

> This happens when the Supertokens middleware is before the CORS middleware. It can also cause an issue in the context of nodejs app where OPTIONS APIs have the right headers, but when you do a POST / GET request to one of the supertokens APIs, it doesn't have the right headers. This is because the CORS middleware doesn't get called if it's placed after the Supertoeksn middleware. To fix, simply put the CORS middleware before the Supertokens middleware.

Reviewer: There are two reasons this would happen:
- If the Access-Control-Allow-Origin doesn't have http://localhost:3000 at all in the values, OR
- It has http://localhost:3000, but the CORS middleware is after the supertokens middleware - in this case, the OPTIONS API will have the right value for Access-Control-Allow-Origin, but the actual GET / POST / PUT API won't since the supertokens middelware will return a response before the CORS middleware is even called.

Author: Added in!

```tsx
// api-server.js

import supertokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";
import { middleware, errorHandler } from "supertokens-node/framework/express";

const app = express();

app.use(
   cors({
       origin: "http://localhost:8080",
       allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...supertokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
       methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
       credentials: true,
   })
);
//highlight-start
app.use(middleware()); // CORS should be before this line
//highlight-end
```

:::danger
[Error] Cannot use wildcard in Access-Control-Allow-Origin when credentials flag is true.
:::

> This appears when CORS is missing the allow-control-access-origin headers. To fix, add in the origin within the CORS settings.

Reviewer: no. This happens, when the value of this header is set to `*`.

---
id: cors-issues
title: CORS Issues
hide_title: true
---

<!-- COPY DOCS -->
<!-- ./emailpassword/troubleshooting/cors-issues.mdx -->

# CORS Issues 

## Introduction

> Let's talk about Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)!

Reviewer: The intro can use fonts.com as an example, but it's way too long.. should make it much smaller

Author: Ok, cutting down the introduction sections

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a mechanism that supports secure cross-origin requests and data transfers, allowing resources such as loading web fonts or making API calls from new domains.

> For example, a user is on a website that uses the domain name "example.com". This website uses a font that's hosted on a different domain name, "fonts.com". When the user's browser makes a request for the font from "fonts.com", the browser will first send a "preflight" request to "fonts.com" to check if "fonts.com" is willing to share resources with "example.com".

Author: Ok sounds good! I'll make the fixes.

## CORS with Supertokens

CORS is an essential part to getting your Supertokens integration working!

Below is a quick example of how to add CORS to work with Supertokens in an NodeJS (express) app.

```tsx
import SuperTokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";
let app = express();

// ...other middlewares

app.use(
  cors({
    origin: "http://127.0.0.1:8080",
    allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...SuperTokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
    methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
    credentials: true,
  })  
);

// ...your API routes
```

## Different parts of CORS

Let’s take a step back and talk about what each of these fields mean.

**`origin` [must have]** -

This configures the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` CORS header. It expects a couple input types. For our case, we’ll only talk about what happens when we assign a Boolean or String to this field.

- Boolean - set origin to true to reflect the request origin, as defined by req.header('Origin'), or set it to false to disable CORS.

> - String - set origin to a specific origin. For example, once set to "http://example.com" only requests from "http://example.com" will be allowed.

Reviewer: It can also be a function. however, we do not need to get into the details of each of these types.. just describe the purpose of this header and an example value of it like `["http://localhost:8080", "https://myapp.com"]`

Author: Ok, making those changes!

This is important because Supertokens has both a frontend and backend SDK. The frontend SDK calls the APIs exposed by the backend SDK. As a result, if the origin to set to false or the wrong origin, we’ll find an error such as the following -

:::danger
Origin [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 204

> :::

Reviewer: Don't use danger notation here - it's not the right use of this. Instead just put it in regular code snippet like this:
```
Origin http://localhost:3000 is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 204
```

Author: Fixed!

For Supertokens projects, we can use the SuperTokens.getCORSAllowedHeaders() function which returns the following list - `["anti-csrf", "rid"]`

This is important because the header tells the browser what HTTP headers are allowed to be used when making a cross-origin request.

**`methods` [optional] -**

This configures the Access-Control-Allow-Methods CORS header. It expects one of two input types.

- Comma-delimited string - `'GET,PUT,POST'`
- Array - `['GET', 'PUT', 'POST']`

This is important because the header tells the browser what HTTP methods are allowed to be used when making a cross-origin request. Supertokens in particular uses `GET`, `POST` and `PUT` for functions such as creating new accounts, signing in/out etc.

**`credentials` [must have] -**

This configures the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` CORS header. It expects a boolean.

If you set this header to true, then the browser will allow cookies to be sent in cross-origin requests. This is important because SuperTokens, by default uses cookies for sessions in the browser.

## Common CORS Issues

:::danger
`[Error] Credentials flag is true, but Access-Control-Allow-Credentials is not "true".`

> :::

Reviewer: Don't use danger notation here. Since each section here starts with the error, make it like this:
```
### `[Error] Credentials flag is true, but Access-Control-Allow-Credentials is not "true".`
```

Reviewer: Notice that I have added backticks to the error message as well. Maybe that's good?

Author: Yup, will make those changes!

This happens when the CORS credentials field is not set to true.

We can remedy this issue by setting credentials to `true` in our cors setting.

```tsx
import SuperTokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";
let app = express();

// ...other middlewares

app.use(
  cors({
    origin: "http://127.0.0.1:8080",
    allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...SuperTokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
    methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
    //highlight-start
    credentials: true, // Check this line
    //highlight-end

  })  
);
```

:::danger
`[Error] Origin [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 204`
:::

This happens when the CORS origin field is incorrect. Another varient of this error is when the OPTIONS API returns a 404 error. This can happen cause of misconfigured API gateway or reverse proxy. It can also be caused by a misconfiguration in the CORS origin field. 

We can remedy this issue by ensuring the origin field lines up with the API domain located in other parts of the code. I’ve highlighted them in bold below -

```tsx
// api-server.js

> import supertokens from "supertokens-node";
> import express from "express";
> import cors from "cors";
> import EmailPassword from "supertokens-node/recipe/emailpassword";
> import Session from "supertokens-node/recipe/session";
> import Dashboard from "supertokens-node/recipe/dashboard";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import supertokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";
```

supertokens.init({

>   framework: "express",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  supertokens: {

>     connectionURI: "https://try.supertokens.com",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    connectionURI: "...",
```

  },

  appInfo: {

>     appName: "SuperTokens Demo App",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    appName: "...",
```

    //highlight-start
    apiDomain: "http://localhost:8080", // Check this line**
    //highlight-end

>     websiteDomain: "http://localhost:3000",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    websiteDomain: "...",
```

  },

>    recipeList: [
>       EmailPassword.init(),
>       Session.init(),
>       Dashboard.init({
>         apiKey: "supertokens_is_awesome",
>       }),
>    ],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   recipeList: [/* ... */],
```

});

const app = express();
app.use(
   cors({
      //highlight-start
      origin: "http://localhost:8080", // Check this line
      //highlight-end
      allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...supertokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
      methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
      credentials: true,
   })
);
```

```tsx
//App.js
import SuperTokens from "supertokens-auth-react";
import EmailPassword from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/emailpassword";
import Session from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/session";

SuperTokens.init({
 appInfo: {
    appName: "SuperTokens Demo App",
    //highlight-start
    apiDomain: "http://localhost:8080", // Check this line
    //highlight-end
    websiteDomain: "http://localhost:3000",
 },
 recipeList: [
    EmailPassword.init(),
    Session.init()
 ]
});
```

:::danger
`[Error] Origin http://localhost:3000 is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Origin. Status code: 200`
:::

There are two cases where this might happen. 

First is when the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` doesn't have `http://localhost:3000` in its values. 

> Or second, it has http://localhost:3000, but the CORS middleware is after the Supertokens middleware - in this case, the OPTIONS API will have the right value for `Access-Control-Allow-Origin`, but the actual `GET` / `POST` / `PUT` API won't since the Supertokens middleware will return a response before the CORS middleware is even called. To fix this, simply put the CORS middleware before the Supertokens middleware.

Reviewer: Put these in bullet points.

Author: Done!

const app = express();

app.use(
   cors({
       origin: "http://localhost:3000", // Make sure this is the correct website domain
       allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...supertokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
       methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
       credentials: true,
   })
);
//highlight-start
app.use(middleware()); // CORS should be before this line
//highlight-end
```

:::danger
`[Error] Cannot use wildcard in Access-Control-Allow-Origin when credentials flag is true.`
:::

This appears when `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header is set to `*`. To fix, add in the correct origin value in the CORS settings.

```tsx
// api-server.js

import supertokens from "supertokens-node";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";

const app = express();

app.use(
   cors({
      //highlight-start
      origin: "http://localhost:3000",  // Make sure the website domain is correct
      //highlight-end
      allowedHeaders: ["content-type", ...supertokens.getAllCORSHeaders()],
      methods: ["GET", "PUT", "POST", "DELETE"],
      credentials: true,
   })
);
```
---

And that’s everything! Thanks for reading and have fun building your next Supertoken app with CORS!

> 

Author: Added!
